---
layout: default
---
I came to the Aphasia Lab to instrumentalize my clinical knowledge and interrogate topics at the intersection of language and brain injury. Broadly, I am interested in characterizing the ways in which life experiences (e.g., bilingualism) modulate language representation in individuals, and furthermore, how those changes manifest in the presence of aphasia. Below are descriptions and (eventually, hopefully) links to results of projects I am currently or have previously worked on.

## The cognate effect in bilingual aphasia
Cognates share a continuum of overlapping phonological and orthographic features between languages, resulting in a facilitatory effect during lexical access (Costa et al., 2000). In bilingual individuals, a spectrum of language experiences (e.g., use, age of acquisition) may influence the extent of facilitation between native (L1) and second language (L2; Rosselli et al., 2014). Aphasia, an access deficit, tests the resilience of the facilitation effect (Kohnert, 2004). We sought to compare the factors influencing naming accuracy in L1 and L2 on English-Spanish cognates and noncognates in healthy bilinguals and bilingual persons with aphasia.

In this study, we measured cognateness continuously by first computing and then taking the average of normalized Levenshtein distance ratings between written and phonetic transcriptions of cognate and noncognate word pairs. Next, we performed principal component analyses on L1 and L2 Language Use Questionnaire (Kastenbaum et al., 2019) scores from all participants. Individual-specific factor loadings were extracted and used in further analyses. In addition to ANOVA and multiple linear regression analyses, logistic mixed-effects models were fitted to examine the item-level effect of cognateness and language experience in both L1 and L2.

## Dynamic causal modeling of semantic decisions in Spanish-English healthy bilingual individuals and bilingual persons with aphasia
In this study, we used a case-series approach to compare the neural correlates of semantic connectivity in four bilingual persons with aphasia (BWA) and four bilingual healthy controls (BHC) performing a semantic judgment task. Using dynamic causal modeling, we constructed several neurobiologically plausible models of semantic processing to test hypotheses regarding the laterality and directionality of effective connectivity in these individuals. The results of DCM analyses revealed distinct patterns of semantic network connectivity in BHC and BWA. Results from case-control comparisons on behavioral and effective connectivity measures converged to indicate significant differences between the cohorts as a factor of language dominance, i.e., the less- or non-dominant language resulted in poorer performance on behavioral measures and relatively greater excitatory instantiation of activity at right inferior gyrus pars triangularis in BWA. We conclude with discussion of each individual patient’s resulting model in both languages and use information from their clinical and language experience profiles to characterize four descriptions of bilingual aphasia.
